Saudi Arabia birthplace of the Prophet
Muhammad the Prophet Muhammad our
graphics department must have decided
against that one for some reason
nao-san arabia has been in the news this
week for a truly appalling reason and it
has to do with Saudi journalists Gemara
Shoji a u.s. resident and columnist for
The Washington Post who has not been
seen since he stepped to the Saudi
consulate in Turkey to pick up some
paperwork 12 days ago this is a man
hostage captured on closed-circuit
cameras stepping into what Turkish
authorities believe was a death trap
Turkish authorities have identified 15
Saudi men as persons of interest only
hours before hogr she went missing
several of them were caught on camera
arriving in Istanbul a Turkish official
told the New York Times Saudi agents had
dismembered his body with a bone saw
they brought for the purpose it's
absolutely horrific and the Saudis deny
it happened although let us all agree on
this a bone saw in any context is an
immediate red flag thanks so much for
inviting me over for Thanksgiving Craig
the turkeys delicious the stuffing is
perfect that's a very large bone saw and
I just remembered I have to leave now
now Saudi officials have scrambled to
explain all the suspicious activity
surrounding his disappearance with the
Saudi own channel al arabiya claiming
that the 15 people who turned up in
Istanbul were just tourists which is
clearly given that flight logs
showed that most of the men arrived on a
private charter plane at 3:13 a.m. and
that all of them departed the same day
they arrived which is a pretty weird
vacation isn't it I want to see Istanbul
but only for a few hours mostly at night
and it need to bring a bone saw
also the whole we were just tourists
excuse isn't even a new one in the wake
of Russia's poisoning of Sergei ripple
the Russian suspects tried the same
thing what were you doing there our
friends had been suggesting for a long
time that we visit this wonderful town
Salisbury a wonderful town yes there's
the famous Salsbury Cathedral famous not
only in Europe but in the whole world
it's famous for its 123 meter spire is
famous for its clock the one of the
first ever created in the world that's
still working okay so first I love how
the reporter immediately became
suspicious when they call Salisbury a
wonderful town she knows what's up it's
like if you heard someone called celery
a delicious treat look I don't know what
else you're not telling the truth about
but now I definitely know you're a
liar and second it's famous for
its 123 meter spire they sound like
they're reading directly off the
Wikipedia page for Salisbury oh wait oh
I love Salisbury it's simple the
population is 40,000 302 and they're a
member of parliament is John Glenn a
conservative whose 80th tenure has been
widely viewed as a failure open brackets
citation needed close brackets all these
things are not looking good right now as
the Turkish government reportedly have
audio and video proof of the
assassination look this story is
incredibly grip because while this may
be the first that you have heard of
Jamar sociology he's long been a
significant figure in Saudi Arabia a
thoughtful and by no means radical
critic of the Saudi royal family and
this is all worried because the only
reason to kill a journalist in your own
consulate with 15 people and a bone saw
you flew in that day it's because you
wanted to send a message and you were
sure you could get away with it which
raises the question why would they be so
sure of that and part of that answer may
have to do with us so tonight let's take
a look at America's relationship with
Saudi Arabia because we have a long and
morally compromised history in in short
in very short four decades we have had a
relationship based on strategic
interests not shared values they have
oil we need it they opposed Iran and so
did we and for those and other reasons
US presidents have to varying degrees
been willing to pander to Saudi Arabia
and in doing so we conveniently turned a
blind eye to a lot of things from human
rights abuses to the Saudi leadership
role in funding religious extremism
even while partnering with us to fight
it it's always been a very complicated
relationship but in the last couple of
years it's actually gotten significantly
closer thanks to two new leaders Trump
and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and
let's take the prince first though his
father the king is still alive since
last year the prince has effectively
been running the country and has branded
himself as MPs the young new face of
Saudi Arabia he made the cover of Time
magazine under the headline charm
offensive and 60 minutes profiled him as
a progressive voice for the country his
reforms inside Saudi Arabia had been
revolutionary he is emancipating women
introducing music and cinema and
cracking down on corruption now there is
some truth to that he's attempted to
reduce the influence of some hardline
clerics he has agreed to let women drive
and he's allowed movie theaters after a
35-year ban although I will note that
one of the very first movies they showed
there was and this is true the Emoji
moon
which in hindsight is actually how it
was always supposed to be seen by a
group of people who had never seen a
good movie to compare it to now now all
of that has been combined with a major
plan to reorient the Saudi economy away
from oil and toward technology called
vision 2030
to that end MBS has gone on a world tour
this year to reassure investors that
Saudi Arabia is stable and progressive
and that businesses should feel
comfortable working with them he's
second meetings with Tim Cook Bill Gates
and Richard Branson and has eaten at
Starbucks with Michael Bloomberg
incidentally while the Starbucks
baristas miraculously nailed Mohammed
bin Salman and Bloomberg still ended up
with a cup reading Mikey Bloomberg as
part of his PR push NBS started an
annual business conference called the
future investment initiative or as it's
known Davos in the desert the first one
was held just last year at the
ritz-carlton in Riyadh featuring leaders
of many big-name companies as well as
the usual futuristic tech like
this we have smart investors here and
they are selective about what they
invest in well I think I'm special
I can use my expressive face to
communicate with people why is it
important for you to have an expressive
most of the time I feel positive oh god
oh god that is a creepy smile that's the
exact same smile that I've seen the
Queen give when she has to interact with
a commoner I believe you want some kind
of contest to come to my house and look
at my things what a positive day for one
of us
don't touch anything but mbss PR push
isn't just toward attracting businesses
is also toward changing the world's
perception of Saudi Arabia to that end
he struck a 10-year deal with one of the
most popular and most American
franchises there is World Wrestling
Entertainment all WWE they held their
first of many events there back in April
and audiences around the world were
treated to Walther war propaganda about
the new Saudi Arabia including a video
showing women happily driving men
dancing and tourist destination beauty
shots as well as constant excited
compliments throughout the broadcast the
course of sunny on its feet that area
has been reserved for the Saudi royal
family the House of Saud I want to send
a genuine thank you to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia Wow
it seems that WWE is avert approached
Audi Arabia as it is lately homoerotic
which is to say intensely but the truth
is MBS is far from the political
reformer that he's been presented as in
fact scratch any positive story about
him and you will find a much grimmer
truth underneath for instance what the
country did get headlines for ending its
ban on women driving just weeks before
authorities arrested about a dozen
female activists who'd campaigned for
the right to drive even that Investment
Conference had a dark coda because just
one week later at the exact same hotel
this happened new footage from inside
the ritz-carlton hotel in Saudi Arabia's
capital Riyadh shows the dramatic
transformation from a favorite haunt of
the well-heeled
into arguably the world's most luxurious
prison it's true MBS used that
ritz-carlton to lock up hundreds of
businessmen and members of the royal
family in a so-called anti-corruption
campaign at least 17 detainees were
reportedly hospitalized for physical
abuse and one Saudi military officer
died in custody which is obviously
insane and horrifying because the only
hotel where you expect to be murdered
days in paints their slogan days in
expect to be murdered here meanwhile bin
Salman has been aggressive with his
neighbors launching a blockade of Qatar
last year that continues to this day as
does an absolutely brutal war in Yemen
that has resulted in over 16,000
casualties and killed over 1,200
children the Saudi campaign of
airstrikes has been catastrophic as this
man attested while standing in front of
what used to be his home was there's no
D Arabia bombs without care how many of
your family were killed twenty-seven
lives 27 people from one family can you
think of any reason why your family in
this house might have been struck I am
NOT a leader or anything
I work as a barber that's clearly
terrible and for the record at the very
least there is no justification for
violence against a barber and that is
coming from me if anyone has a
justification for a blood grudge against
barbers it would be yours truly because
of what they did to me and yes as all of
this has happened our current president
has continued to bend over backwards to
accommodate and ignore bin Salman zwarst
excesses and sometimes even celebrate
them after that clamp down on corruption
at the ritz-carlton
many around the world sounded the alarm
but Trump went the other way
Trump endorsed Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman s new corruption crackdown
tweeting quote I have great confidence
in King Salman and the crown prince of
Saudi Arabia they know exactly what they
are doing right but just because they
know what they're doing doesn't mean
that what they're doing is good Michael
Jordan knew exactly what he was doing
when he wore this moustache in a Hanes
commercial he was seeing how far this
whole Michael Jordan thing could take
him and the answer was apparently
through Hitler and beyond
and that that actually fits with the
larger pattern of Donald Trump and Saudi
Arabia because since taking office he is
catered to cater to them at every single
turn he made Saudi Arabia the first
foreign country he visited as president
and he seemed to have an absolutely
great time there
dancing with a sword and famously
groping a weird glowing or after which I
assume Michael Cohen instinctively
offered the orb 130,000 dollars and told
it to keep quiet and look it really
shouldn't be that surprising to anybody
that Trump has so enthusiastically
embraced the Saudi royal family they
have the two qualities he admires most
in the world having a lot of money and
giving it to him he basically said as
much on the campaign trail Saudi Arabia
and I get along great with all of them
they buy apartments from me they spend
40 million 50 million am I supposed to
dislike him I like him very much yeah of
course buying an apartment from Trump is
a surefire way to get him to like you
along with wearing one of his hats being
under 25 years old with a size 30 of
double D and not being Eric he's a he's
a simple man
it's simple tastes and Trump's
businessman view of the Saudis as just
people with money don't ask too many
questions
has carried over now that he's president
when bin Salman came to the White House
Trump called a press conference in the
Oval Office where he boasted about the
amount of arms that they were buying
from us essentially using MBS as a human
easel some of the things that have been
approved and are currently under
construction and will be delivered to
Saudi Arabia very soon and that's for
their protection but if you look in
terms of dollars three billion dollars
five hundred and thirty three million
dollars five hundred and twenty five
million dollars that's peanuts for you
eight hundred and eighty million dollars
six hundred and forty five million
dollars six billion dollars that's four
frigates
but first has any human in the history
of the world more obviously just learned
a word than he just learned a word
frigates but second look at bin Salman
face there as it hits him just how much
Trump likes money it's like the face of
a babysitter who realized you can pacify
a screaming kid with Twizzlers oh I
thought this was going to be difficult
but if all you want is Twizzlers I've
got loads of them here take all you want
and shut the up
and look look I am by no means saying
the Trump is the first u.s. president to
make distasteful arms deals with the
Saudis we've been doing it for decades
the Obama administration still sold them
weapons even as Saudi Arabia got
involved in Yemen but Trump has
continued doing so even assigned mante
of Saudi recklessness in airstrikes two
months ago they dropped an american-made
bomb on a school bus full of children
but just a month later Trump's defense
secretary said that Saudi Arabia was
doing everything it could to prevent
civilian casualties and we carried on
supporting them my point here is at
every turn Trump has gone out of his way
to accommodate the Saudis he doesn't
even have an ambassador to the kingdom
our relationship with them is being
handled personally by Jared Ivanka
Trump's realdoll and and the Saudis seem
understandably very happy with that
situation Krishna took an unannounced
trip to Saudi Arabia in 2017 to meet
with the young Prince months later and
Bs reportedly boasted that Kushner was
quote in his pocket which bin said man
deny yeah of course is in their pocket
he's Jared that face was born to
be maneuvered into someone's pockets his
Secret Service nickname is probably
wallet keys and a little bit of lint so
so while the fact that the US has
enabled Saudi Arabia is nothing new the
extent to which Trump is prioritizing
money above all else is really dangerous
is it any wonder that they have been
emboldened here after MPS's roundup of
his rivals Trump tweeted his support
after his blockade of Qatar Trump for
some reason took credit for it and that
kind of has consequences
time and again Trump has chosen extreme
friendliness with MPs
a leader who
in the words of one Saudi critic has
created a climate of fear and
intimidation going on to say we Saudis
deserve better
that critic was yamaja shogi the
journalists who is widely thought to
have been murdered in the Saudi
consulate and while Trump has said that
Saudi Arabia faces severe punishment if
it's proven they were behind this does
anyone really believe that that is
something that he's honestly committed
to a much more revealing response came
in the Oval Office after the news of her
jokey's disappearance broke just watch
him render in real-time the cost-benefit
analysis that he was applying to the
situation again just took place in
Turkey and to the best of our knowledge
Khashoggi is not a United States citizen
is that right it's a permanent resident
okay we don't like it John we don't like
it and we don't like it even a little
bit but as to whether or not we should
stop a hundred and ten billion dollars
from being spent in this country knowing
they have four or five alternatives two
very good alternatives that would not be
acceptable to pick he's openly
demonstrating to the entire world and to
Saudi Arabia specifically that arms deal
much more important than butchered
journalists look clearly giving Saudi
Arabia green lights for two solid years
has had consequences and a lot of people
now have some big decisions to make the
second annual Davos in the desert begins
nine days from now and already all of
these companies have pulled out although
as of right now Treasury secretary Steve
minuchin is still planning to attend
which is ridiculous the desert is
comfortably hot enough without that
smoke show am i right
am i right smoke shop right
you can get it that's a me face am
i right am i right on that yeah now as
for the WWE while they say they are
monitoring the situation they're
gigantic crown jewel event is still
scheduled for November meaning John Cena
could well be back there doing this
which I guess in this context would mean
you don't see these human rights abuses
right here as for the president again
look every US leader has chosen to make
compromises when it comes to Saudi
Arabia but Trump may well be the first
one who doesn't see it as a compromise
because he and NBS are similar in some
of the worst possible ways they both
love money they're both a product of
inherited wealth they both love self
promotion yet disdain the press and they
even both share a design aesthetic that
amounts to Elvis tries to remember what
Versailles looks like but can't and
Trump's intense bromance with NBS is bad
news because when you set no boundaries
on an oppressive regime they are always
going to ask themselves how much can we
get away with here and as we saw this
week the answer to that may well be
pretty much anything
you